China did not set GDP growth target thrice previously, NDRC official says
By Ouyang Shijia | chinadaily.com.cn | Updated: 2020-05-24 14:40 

Ning Jizhe (second from left), deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission, at a news conference in Beijing on Sunday. [Photo by Zou Hong/chinadaily.com.cn]
China made the decision to not set a target for economic growth for 2020 after full consideration of the uncertainties about the COVID-19's impact, according to the country's top economic regulator.

"It's not the first time that China has not set a specific target for economic growth," Ning Jizhe, deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission, told a news conference on Sunday in Beijing. He said the annual government work reports for 2000, 2001 and 2002 also did not mention the GDP growth target.

Ning said China not setting a target growth for 2020 is due to the great uncertainties caused by the global spread of coronavirus and global trade and economy, which make it hard to predict China's future development.

"In fact, the economic indicators tasks have been broken into related indicators in other economic and social development goals," Ning added.

Nation focuses on quality development
By XIN ZHIMING and LI XIANG | CHINA DAILY | Updated: 2020-05-23 07:18

Premier Li Keqiang delivers the Government Work Report at the annual meeting of China's top legislature in Beijing on Friday. [Photo/Xinhua]
China's decision not to set a GDP growth target this year does not mean it has attached less importance to economic growth, but instead shows the authorities are paying greater attention to high-quality development, economists said after Premier Li Keqiang delivered the Government Work Report to the opening of the third session of the 13th National People's Congress on Friday.

In the report, Li said China will not set a GDP growth target for this year and will take a number of forceful financial measures to shore up the economy, which has been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic.

President Xi Jinping, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, and other leaders attended the meeting at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.

Li acknowledged that the world's second-largest economy faces "difficult factors" and "uncertainties" due to the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has sharply reduced global demand and seriously dampened economic activities.

"We have not set a specific target for economic growth this year," he said. "This is because our country will face some factors that are difficult to predict in its development due to the great uncertainty regarding the COVID-19 pandemic and the world economic and trade environment."

Sun Guojun, a senior official at the State Council Research Office who participated in the drafting of the Government Work Report, said,"Without a target, it does not mean that economic growth is unimportant or the government will allow the economy to slide out of the proper range."

The premier said the nation will focus on "ensuring stability on the six fronts and security in the six areas" this year.

China's policy of "ensuring stability on the six fronts" refers to employment, finance, foreign trade, foreign investment, domestic investment, and market expectations.

The policy of "security in the six areas" means safeguarding employment, people's livelihoods, the development of market entities, food and energy security, the stable operation of industrial and supply chains, and the smooth functioning of society.

By implementing those policies," we will be able to keep the fundamentals of the economy stable", Li said.

Zhang Ming, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences' Institute of World Economics and Politics, said that while no specific target for GDP growth has been set, the focus on the "six fronts" and "six areas" showed the top authorities have the worst-case scenario in mind as they work for the best results.
According to Ning, the government will make a big push to ensure "six priorities" and stability in six areas for steady economic momentum, with a key focus on creating jobs, alleviating poverty, using policy tools, expanding domestic demand, resuming work and production and deepening reforms and opening up.